SEOImages: User Story 1463880, Part 26 (#11382)
dotnet/docs: docs/framework/wpf/graphics-multimedia/how-to-control-the-fill-of-a-composite-shape.md

  
 The following illustration shows the shape created in the previous example.  
  

>  ![Diagram showing the FillRule property of EvenOdd.](./media/how-to-control-the-fill-of-a-composite-shape/fillrule-evenodd-property.png)  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 ![A circle made up of a series concentric rings with alternating colors.](./media/how-to-control-the-fill-of-a-composite-shape/fillrule-evenodd-property.png)  
```

>  In the illustration above, notice that the center and 3rd ring are not filled. This is because a ray drawn from any point within either of those two rings passes through an even number of segments. See illustration below:  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 In the previous illustration, notice that the center and third ring are not filled. This is because a ray drawn from any point within either of those two rings passes through an even number of segments. See the following illustration:  
```

  
 ![Diagram showing the EvenOdd rays drawn in the circle.](./media/how-to-control-the-fill-of-a-composite-shape/fillrule-evenodd-rays.png)  
  
 **NonZero:** This rule determines whether a point is in the fill region of the path by drawing a ray from that point to infinity in any direction and then examining the places where a segment of the shape crosses the ray. Starting with a count of zero, add one each time a Segment crosses the ray from left to right and subtract one each time a path segment crosses the ray from right to left. After counting the crossings, if the result is zero then the point is outside the path. Otherwise, it is inside.  
  
 [!code-xaml[GeometriesMiscSnippets_snip#FillRuleNonZeroValueEllipseGeometry](~/samples/snippets/xaml/VS_Snippets_Wpf/GeometriesMiscSnippets_snip/XAML/FillRuleExample.xaml#fillrulenonzerovalueellipsegeometry)]  
  

>  Using the example above, a value of <xref:System.Windows.Media.FillRule.Nonzero> for <xref:System.Windows.Media.GeometryGroup.FillRule%2A> gives the following illustration as a result:  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 Using the previous example, a value of <xref:System.Windows.Media.FillRule.Nonzero> for <xref:System.Windows.Media.GeometryGroup.FillRule%2A> gives the following illustration as a result:  
```

>  ![Illustration showing the FillRule value of Nonzero.](./media/how-to-control-the-fill-of-a-composite-shape/fillrule-value-nonzero.png)  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 ![A circle made up of a series concentric rings all filled with the same color.](./media/how-to-control-the-fill-of-a-composite-shape/fillrule-value-nonzero.png)  
```

>  As you can see, all the rings are filled. This is because all the segments are running in the same direction and so a ray drawn from any point will cross one or more segments and the sum of the crossings will not equal zero. For example, in the illustration below, the red arrows represent the direction the segments are drawn and the white arrow represents an arbitrary ray running from a point in the innermost ring. Starting with a value of zero, for each segment that the ray crosses, a value of one is added because the segment crosses the ray from left to right.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 As you can see, all the rings are filled. This is because all the segments are running in the same direction and so a ray drawn from any point will cross one or more segments and the sum of the crossings will not equal zero. For example, in the following illustration, the red arrows represent the direction the segments are drawn and the white arrow represents an arbitrary ray running from a point in the innermost ring. Starting with a value of zero, for each segment that the ray crosses, a value of one is added because the segment crosses the ray from left to right.  
```

>  ![Illustration showing the FillRule property value equal to Nonzero.](./media/how-to-control-the-fill-of-a-composite-shape/fillrule-value-equal-nonzero.png)  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 ![Diagram showing the FillRule property value equal to Nonzero.](./media/how-to-control-the-fill-of-a-composite-shape/fillrule-value-equal-nonzero.png)  
```

  
 To better demonstrate the behavior of <xref:System.Windows.Media.FillRule.Nonzero> rule a more complex shape with segments running in different directions is required. The XAML code below creates a similar shape as the previous example except that it is created with a <xref:System.Windows.Media.PathGeometry> rather then a <xref:System.Windows.Media.EllipseGeometry> which creates four concentric arcs rather then fully closed concentric circles.  
  
 [!code-xaml[GeometriesMiscSnippets_snip#FillRuleNonZeroValuePathGeometry](~/samples/snippets/xaml/VS_Snippets_Wpf/GeometriesMiscSnippets_snip/XAML/FillRuleExample.xaml#fillrulenonzerovaluepathgeometry)]  
  
 The following illustration shows the shape created in the previous example.  
  

>  ![Diagram showing the shape created using PathGeometry.](./media/how-to-control-the-fill-of-a-composite-shape/pathgeometry-concentric-arcs.png)  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 ![A circle made up of a series concentric rings with alternating colors with the third arc not filled.](./media/how-to-control-the-fill-of-a-composite-shape/pathgeometry-concentric-arcs.png)  
```

>  Notice that the third arc from the center is not filled. The illustration below shows why this is. In the illustration, the red arrows represent the direction the segments are drawn. The two white arrows represent two arbitrary rays that move out from a point in the "non-filled" region. As can be seen from the illustration, the sum of the values from a given ray crossing the segments in its path is zero. As defined above, a sum of zero means that the point is not part of the geometry (not part of the fill) while a sum that is *not* zero, including a negative value, is part of the geometry.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 Notice that the third arc from the center is not filled. The following illustration shows why this is. In the illustration, the red arrows represent the direction the segments are drawn. The two white arrows represent two arbitrary rays that move out from a point in the "non-filled" region. As can be seen from the illustration, the sum of the values from a given ray crossing the segments in its path is zero. As defined above, a sum of zero means that the point is not part of the geometry (not part of the fill) while a sum that is *not* zero, including a negative value, is part of the geometry.  
```
